Previously on Roswe“.
[Screams]
I have to find her.
She's in trouble. She's gonna die.
Oh, God! She's under here!
You saved my life.
There's something about her, Max.
It's like I know her.
So how do we figure out
what this is?
I don't believe this.
They're pulsating.
Stop looking for me!
You stay away from me!
You're dead! You're dead!
- Don't worry! I'm not gonna hurt you!
- No!
[Tires Screeching]
- Look at this.
- God, that looks just like you.
That is me.
[ Maria ]
Okay, that is freaky.
- [Michael] That's pretty weird, huh?
- “Pretty weird, huh?"
Michael, have you ever even
thought of the possibility...
that this guy more than
just looks like you?
Like he is you. Like your donor.
Like your human side is him.
Which means,
in some weird and twisted way...
- that he and his relatives are like your fimi/y
- Like Laurie Dupree.
- Exactly.
- It figures.
I finally find a family member,
and she's a complete wack-job.
- Whoa.
- What?
Someone's in Garrison's
Hardware Store.
Maria, we're supposed to be
watching the sheriff's station.
I think they're having sex.
Whoa.
[ Duff] Laurie, if you help me
find the man who did this...
I can stop him from hurting someone else
like he hurt you.
But you have to talk to me.
[Sighs]
We've been at this for two days.
I'm sending you back to Pinecrest,
to your old room.
We'll have extra security
to make sure that you're safe.
Tell me everything you know
about who did this to you.
They're aliens.
Oh, no.
- Oh, no'.
- What, what, what is it?
- They're back.
- Who's back?
- They're close. They're coming here.
- Who's coming here?
- I have to get out of here now!
- Whoa! Hanson! Hanson!
- Calm down!
- Let me out of here!
No! No! No!
No! Get out!
Don't! Let me out!
[Giggles] He's not actually gonna
plug that thing in, is he?
Go, baby, go! Yeah!
Sick man. This town is sick.
Michael, something's happening.
So just to put this out there,
I'm assuming that we're back together again.
I'm not gonna get into
this relationship stuff right now.
You don't have to. Actually, I'd prefer
that you didn't say anything at all.
I'm just telling you that if we're chasing down
some crazy girl in the middle of the night...
the only reason that I'd do something so nuts
is because you and I were dating again.
- Wh-Whatever.
- I told you not to say anything.
What's going on back there?
Hey! What are you doing?
Hey, can you hear me?
Are you guys all right?
- [Screams]
- No! Easy! Easy! I'm not gonna hurt you!
We're here to help you!
- [ Gunshots]
- Get down, get down! Get down!
Maria, get in the car!
Hey, hey, hey! Now, you can come with us,
or you can stay here and get killed.
Come on, come on!
Get in the car! Get in the car!
[ Engine Starts]
I') [ Rock ]
g,' [Continues]
tyfffltf]
Bob, sources within the county hospital
say that the young girl, Laurie Dupree...
became agitated
while the vehicle was in motion.
But what is not clear
is how Laurie Dupree...
- released herself from her protective
restraints. - Where are you?
I don? know.
We're about 30 miles west of Dexter.
Side mirror, a hundred bucks,
not including labor.
As you can see, there is
an abandoned stolen vehicle here.
Now, how that figures into
this developing story is still unclear.
- How is she?
- Laurie?
She's completely crazy. She tried to jump out
of the car three times while it was moving...
so I had to use my powers
to lock her in.
She's basically like a caged animal.
Sun visor, 15 bucks,
including labor, of course.
At this hour, a countywide search
for the missing girl is underway.
Here is a recent hospital photograph.
The whole state's gonna be looking for her.
You can't come back to Roswell, Michael,
No, no, no, no!.
Now you're hurting all of us!
We can use any information
we can get about the crystals.
- Try and get her talking.
- Oh, yeah, she's a real conversationalist.
Not the dash!
That is a major deal to replace!
- Do you you see this?
- What are you doing?
[ Electric Saw whirring]
Hey, Dad.
[ Muffled]
Kyle. Tess.
- What are you doing?
- What's it look like?
- I'm not sure.
- He- He's building something.
- Right?
- Give the girl a prize.
It's been a while
since I had time to work on this.
[whirring]
One thing I got plenty of now, it'; time.
Right.
Are you getting anywhere?
I think we're dealing with
some kind of alien bacteria...
or something.
Maybe you should askyour lab partner.
She's the science whiz.
I'm trying to keep Liz
out of this right now.
So they're driving around aimlessly
with a fugitive in the car.
No, she's not a fugitive.
She'sjust...
- wanted by the law.
- Interesting distinction.
Anyway, they're gonna be gone for
a couple of days, so we need to cover for them.
Who may be gone for a couple days?
Uh, no one, Sean.
We're sort of having
a private conversation here, so-
Aunt Amy's flipping over
“M“ being AWOL.
Great. You wanna translate that
for the people that haven't served time?
Where the hell's Maria?
Oh. I don't know.
Well, Aunt Amy's freaked out.
She wants to see you, so let's go.
Okay. I'm gonna
go over there with Sean...
and try and keep that situation over there
from getting out of hand.
- Yeah, good idea.
- Smart move.
Nice top.
I dig the midriff thing.
Shut up, please.
Laurie, I'm trying to help you. Tell me
if you have any family. How hard is that?
Come on!
You can trust me!
I pulled you out of that ambulance.
I saved you from the kidnappers.
What else do I gotta do?
- [ Honks Horn]
- Michael!
That's it. Let's go.
I'm hungry. Let's go.
- Go? Go where?
- To the Roadside Café.
It's the world's worst chili-cheese fries
in about 100 miles...
but the best vanilla shakes in five.
- The cops are looking for her.
- Listen, trust me.
Even the cops give the Roadside
a wide berth.
It's strictly for us hard core
greasy spoon aficionados.
[Bell Rings 1
Miss Evans. Hello.
Agent Suzanne Duff, F.B.l.
Shouldn't my parents be here?
You're 18.
The law says you're an adult now.
Well, a lawyer then.
Why would you need a lawyer?
You're not under arrest.
Let's just talk for a second.
Sheriff Valenti knew that
Laurie Dupree was missing...
before a missing persons report was filed.
How? He won't say.
He also knew how to find her buried
underground in the middle of nowhere.
How? He won't say.
The only link I seem to find
is you and your brother.
You were seen during the investigation
a number of times with the sheriff.
- I lost my bike that week.
- Oh, I know. I heard.
And let’s just say that I believe that.
That still doesn't explain why you were
at the crime scene with the sheriff.
Isabel...
what is the big secret,
and why can't I be let in on it?
I've already answered these
questions for Deputy Hanson.
But you lied to him.
I'm not some local deputy
working for a local sheriff.
I'm with the Federal
Bureau oflnvestigation.
And if you lie to me,
you're in deep trouble, young lady.
- [Knocking]
- What?
- Sorry Agent Dufif
- Deputy Hanson, this is not the ti-
Mr. Sorenson, what-
what can I do for you?
I found this in the woods
this morning...
about a mile east
of the crime scene.
,3 [ jukebox: Country]
Ah, the food that time forgot.
Assuming that anything
out of a can is a safe bet.
I have to go to the bathroom.
Fine. Maria.
- What?
- Go with her.
Are you crazy?
Have you ever seen that bathroom?
It's one stall, no door.
I'm sorry. No, thank you.
Well, if you don't, she's gonna book.
Isn't that right?
[Scoffs]
Okay, I'm sorry. I've had it.
Look, I'm not your mommy
and I'm not your doctor...
so there's no friggin' way that I'm gonna
go in the bathroom with you...
and hold your hand while you potty.
Look, we gotta establish
a little trust, all right?
You trust us, we trust you.
Got it?
Look, all we're trying to do
is help you escape the evil aliens...
that want to buryyou
in the woods, remember?
Is there anybody else out there
in the big, bad world that's gonna do that for you?
No. See, I didn't think so.
So look, after you answer nature's call
in that toxic waste dump of a restroom...
you have the choice of either
rejoining us here at the table with a different
attitude for a nice delicious meal...
or “B, "you can hoof it
to the Mexican border.
It's about 150 miles thataway.
Can we get some service or what, hmm?
You think that's gonna work?
Not a chance, but... doesn't matter.
The Mexican border's thataway.
I am certain Maria is fine.
Oh, she called.
She went camping again.
Oh. See? I knew it.
Do you know what these are, Liz?
Long johns?
Maria's long johns.
Why would Maria leave her long johns
and all of her other winter gear at home...
if she went camping
in the middle of February?
Here's a theory from someone
who's had several hours to muse on it:
She didn't go camping.
She lied to her mother...
just like she lied to me the other four times
she took off for clays on end...
each time leaving out
on the open road...
anotherpiece ofherinnocence
and m y jetta.
Liz, I consider you a friend
and an extended member of this family...
and I value the friendshipyou have
with my daughter very much...
but if you don't tell me everything
you know about where the hell she is...
lam going to become
very violent with you.
Ms. DeLuca, she's fine.
- She's with Michael.
- I knew it.
But they'rejust getting away.
You know, they're taking in the scenery.
- Yeah, of a cheap motor inn.
- Sean, shut up.
All right, give me your phone.
- What?
- Hand it over.
She shut her phone off, but I'm sure
she'll be turning it on to call you again.
And when she does,
I'll be here with you to receive that call.
You can sit down. You're not going anywhere
till I get my daughter back.
Laurie Dupree!
Fancy meeting you out here.
So what's goin' on, huh?
. What's happening?
' You okay?
You know what?
Why don't you give those lips a rest...
and let me have a word
with spaceboy, okay?
Okay.
Okay, you want to get through to her?
You want to make a connection here?
- This is what you gotta do: Tell her the truth.
- Forget it.
Look, you wanna know why you look like
Grandpa 1935- She's the key.
So you have two choices, all right?
You can let her in on the whole
alien conspiracy thing...
and hope that it shakes something loose
from the dusty corners of her brain...
OI' YOU can--
- No. That's not gonna work, so you have that
one option. - No. What's my second option?
- You're not capable of it, I promise.
-just say it.
Form an emotional bond with Laurie.
Fine. You don't like that answer,
then go show her the secret alien handshake.
Okay, fine. What kind of psychobabble
Oprah-crap do I got to tell her?
I can't put the words
in your mouth, Michael.
It's gotta come from you.
It's got to come from whatever organ
you have sitting in for your heart.
Just go over there and tell her
in your own words that she can trust you.
And make sure that she feels that you're
being completely emotionally honest.
- Okay. Fine.
- All right, you think you can handle it?
I'm not completely emotionally retarded.
I have feelings.
All right, then walk 'em over there
and give 'em a workout.
[Sighs]
- [ Clicks Switch]
- Hey, Dad.
Kyle.
I shouldn't be concerned here, should I?
I mean,you're not building
a guillotine or something?
[Chuckles]
I'm not that far off though, am I?
You're killing yourself here.
Nah. I'm doing a little woodwork,
that's all, okay?
What are you making?
- Baseball bat.
Give you one when I'm done.
Always wanted you
to have a handmade bat.
Thought about it when
you were in Little League.
I'm, uh-
I'm in kind of a dark place here, Kyle.
Just gonna take me a little while
to work my way out of it.
Okay?
All right, but Tess and I...
we're still here.
We're just trying to make ends meet,
keep our heads above water.
Well, if this lawsuit doesn't go away...
then we'll be in that dark place with you.
Look, Laurie, I know a lot of people
thinkyou're pretty crazy.
But the truth is, knowing everything you've
been through, you seem pretty normal to me.
I just want you to know
that whatever you are to me-
a sister, a cousin, whatever-
you're the only family I've ever known,
and I just found you.
I don't-
I don't want to let you go.
I know you're scared to death of me,
but if you could find some way to trust me-
I mean, I got all kinds of faults...
and this one over here, she can list them all
for you if you want later on, but...
the one thing I am is loyal;
I will not turn my back on you.
That's all I got to say.
L- I don't know.
You're not my grandpa, are you?
No.
But I'd like to meet him.
[Sighs]
Tucson.
Grandpa's in Tucson, Arizona.
- [ Ringing]
- Uh, uh, Liz,I-
- What? Push the-
- Hello?
- That's right. This is your mother.
I confiscated Liz's phone.
Where are you?
L-I'm still in New Mexico, Mom.
Oh, that's cute.
Where are you?
[Sighs]
On our way to Arizona.
Why?
We're- We're being free spirits, Mom.
That means you're going to Sedona
to get stoned...
- and have sex in the hills.
- Mom!
Do you think I wasn't 1 7 once?
Do you think I didn't do
crazy, stupid things...
with a really bad boy
when I was your age?
Yes, I know you did, Mom- Dad.
- Let me talk to him.
- Why?
- Put him on the phone now!
- She wants to talk to you.
What? No!
Are you era--
- Hey, Ms. DeLuca. - Michael, I want you
to listen to me very, very carefully.
On this glorious, rebellious
lost weekend of yours...
you will take care of my daughter.
You will protect her and be kind to her,
and she will have fun.
You will not get matching tattoos...
and you will not allow her
to pierce any part of her body...
that cannot be shown in polite company.
And, Michael,
if you have sex with my daughter...
I will hunt you down and kill you
like the mangy clog you are.
Okay?
Okay.
Call me if you need bail money.
What'd she say?
She wants you to have fun.
Shut this off.
- I think you should call the police.
- Sean!
I'm just thinking about Maria.
I don't want anything to happen to her.
Michael will take care of her,
Ms. DeLuca.
I don't know.
Guerin's a mighty shady character.
Look who's talking.
Me? I'm not shady.
I'm, uh-
- I'm misunderstood.
- Stop, Sean.
- What's the matter, you can't handle it, Parker?
- Sean, stop it!
_ Ne!
“ yes!
- Sean, I'm not kidding. Stop.
- No.
Okay, okay, okay!
I need a drink here.
Sit down.
Please behave yourselves.
Sean!
[ Liz ]
Yeah, stay down.
- Uh, hi, Max.
- Hi.
Uh, is Liz here?
You're not planning to take her
across state lines are you?
No.
Then, yeah, she's here.
[ Laughing]
Come on, stop it!
Please get off of me!
Get off- Sean, get off!
Get off!
[ Liz Laughing]
Please!
Will you please get off of me? Sean!
What? What?
Max! Um, hi.
What are you doing here?
ls something wrong? Stop.
L- I need your help with something.
Science homework.
Okay. Um-
I'm gonna get my bag.
Um-
- Okay.
- Bye, Liz.
- Good to see you again.
- Bye, Sean. You too.
[ Valenti]
Sorenson!
Hey-
Listen, I, uh-
I came out here to see
if we could settle this thing. Uh-
I admit I kind of
stepped over the line with you...
but that doesn't give you the right
to try to destroy my family.
Hey, you could do me the courtesy
of turning around.
[ Roars]
Don't hit me!
559F175', stop! Stop!
What the hell are you doing?
I just got a call
that you attacked Sorenson again.
What is it,
woodshop got you frustrated?
I want you to put Grant Sorenson
under surveillance.
Thanks for your suggestion, but maybe
you're forgetting you're no longer sheriff.
He's the one you're looking for.
He's the kidnapper.
Does this have anything to do
with his $15 million lawsuit?
This is the gun that was used to
fire the bullets at you, Max and Isabel.
Sorenson found it out at one of his digs,
and he brought it to me.
Sheriff, if he is a kidnapper...
why would he be trying
to help me solve this case?
All right.
I went to Sorenson to try
to settle our differences, okay?
When I approached him,
he didn't recognize me.
It was like he'd never seen me before.
Suddenly, he lunged at me
and one minute later, he's his old self again.
Now, I don't know. Maybe--
Maybe he's guilty
and he's innocent.
- A split personality?
- Grant Sorenson may have turned in the rifle...
but the person thatjumped me earlier today
is the one who fired it.
Well, that's an interesting theory, Sheriff.
But the problem is right now you appear
to be the one with the split personality.
[L12] Looks like they're alien versions of
Naegleria fowleri-
waterborne parasites found in
the blood cells of certain species offish.
Parasites?
That implies they need
something to feed on, like an arm.
Maybe, but you said
they didn't affect you.
No. I got the feeling
I didn't taste good or something.
And they didn't react
when Sheriff Valenti picked them up?
No.
Sounds like they're not interested
in terrestrial organisms.
Except Laurie.
They formed on her grave site.
So maybe there's
something unique about her...
something the parasites are looking for.
Or there could be something
unique about her grave site.
It's in Frazier Woods, right?
Right.
Isabel, hi. It's Liz.
We need you to do something.
I got your message.
What's up?
- I wanted to talk to you.
- I hope this isn't about my lawsuit again...
- 'cause that lunatic sheriff just attacked me.
- No, it has nothing to do with that.
Then why are we here?
I thought you told me it was over between us.
Look, Grant,
things just got so complicated...
and I guess I just wish we could go
back to the beginning as ifwejust met.
Isabel Evans.
Grant Sorenson.
What do you do, Mr. Sorenson?
Grant, please. I'm a geologist.
A geologist! Fascinating.
- Oh, I'm glad you think so.
- I want to hear all about it.
- What'd you like to know?
- What are you working on right now?
I'm doing a survey out in Frazier Woods.
Really?
Tell me, what's so special
about Frazier Woods?
[Clears Throat]
Well-
Wow. Grandpa's done
pretty well for himself.
You okay?
I'm nervous.
I haven't seen my grandfather for so long.
[ Buzzing]
- [Man] Can / he/pyou?
- Yeah. We're here to see Charles Dupree.
- Who are-you?
- I'm Michael.
This is Maria, and this is
Mr. Dupree's granddaughter, Laurie.
Hi.
Laurie! Is it really you, Laurie?
Where's Grandpa?
Oh, my God.
[ Woman] Bobby, you do remember
we have that function...
at the Bonhofis later this afternoon,
don't you?
I mean, really, you can't be
trotting around the polo grounds...
for the whole afternoon
and expect me to do all--
Who are-
What is it?
Aunt Mary, I want to see
my grandfather right now.
He's dead, Laurie.
He's been dead for seven years.
You were at his funeral,
for God's sakes.
[Bobby]
Spooky. I mean, it's just spooky.
“Typical“ is more like it.
Daddy always did have
that wandering eye.
Looks like hejust wandered off
the marital reservation...
and left us all a little surprise.
And I love surprises.
Carmen! Would you draw a bath
and get Miss Laurie's room ready?
Go on, Laurie.
Why don't you go upstairs.
It's okay.
I'm not going anywhere.
And, uh, what is ityou want, Mr.-
Guerin. Michael Guerin.
Look, your daughter has been-
Niece. She's our niece, Mr. Guerin.
Well, your niece has been through
a pretty traumatic experience.
Somebody kidnapped her.
They buried her in the ground,
and we think that he's still after her.
Oh, well, that's quite a story.
Why don't Laurie's hospital records
list you as the next of kin?
- What hospital?
- [Maria ] The P/necrest Psychiatric Institute.
Brownfield, Texas,
where Laurie's been living for the past-
I don't know- what, three--
three years?
Oh, well, we haven't seen
our niece in years.
So someone finally put her away, huh?
Did the aliens chase her there too?
You know, aliens are chasing
our family, Mr. Guerin.
Don't stay too long.
They might get you too.
He has about 50 experiments
going on in Frazier Woods...
all of which he explained to me
in excruciating detail.
- But the common thread through each one
is the water table. - What about it?
The woods are unusual because
the water's so close to the surface.
In some places, it's less than
three feet below ground.
lfthe parasites really are waterborne,
and that's just a theory...
they might be in the water table.
But how would alien parasites get
in the water table in the first place?
Okay, this is a map of the water table
for the entire county.
- [ Max] It looks like a bunch of rivers.
- Yeah, that's basically it.
The water flows from
one area to anotherm.
through a system of
underground rivers and streams.
- Frazier Woods. - So the stream passes
right underneath the gra ve site.
Let's see the rest of that stream.
- Oh, my God.
- What?
Do you know what that is?
That's Pohlman Ranch.
- [Isabel] The crash site.
- Yeah. The stream passes right beneath it.
That means that the parasites
might've been on our ship.
Somebody kidnaps a girl
and buries her in the ground...
so a bunch of alien parasites can-
I mean, can do what to her?
We don't know.
And then how does he know
about these parasites?
Is he human or is he alien?
Are these things dangerous
to normal people in Roswell?
Okay, where do we go from here, Max?
- I have absolutely no idea.
- We needhe/p.
I wish you guys could just phone home.
Wouldn't that be nice.
Max, Could you-
Oh, hello.
Sorry. We werejust using some of
the equipment for a science project.
- I hope you don't mind.
- Oh, of course not.
Can you let me know
when you're done?
- We won't be long.
- Okay.
Max, didn't you say that there was
an alien at the summit...
that reached out with his mind
and possessed Brody's body?
- Right.
- What if that connection goes both ways?
What if we can send a signal
back through Brody?
That rifle was reported stolen...
by a hunter in Newcastle, Wyoming,
injuly...
and the oxygen tanks used
to keep the girl alive...
were stolen from a hospice
in Fort Collins, Colorado, in August...
and the plastic box around her head...
was taken from an industrial supply warehouse
in Las Cruces in September.
And?
This is Grant Sorenson's work itinerary.
He was in all those places at the times
those items were reported stolen.
Chalk up another one
for the woodworking detective.
Look, you seem to know
more about this than anyone.
Why? I'm not sure.
But I need to settle this case...
and you want to be sheriff again.
You help me close this one, and I will make it
my business to get you your job back.
I guess the bats can wait.
I don? like it.
What, the tile?
No. The fact that we haven't
seen Laurie in three hours.
[Sighs]
- This can't be good.
- This is yours.
- What's this?
- $50,000.
- What?
- And that's all you're going to get.
You may look like our father...
but we'll fight any further
paternity and inheritance claims...
every step of the way.
I'm not here to make
an inheritance claim.
Wait. How big of an inheritance claim
are you talking about?
Please escort Mr. Guerin
and his friend off the property.
- Wait a minute. What about Laurie?
- We'll take care of her now.
Hey! No, you don't understand!
There are people after her!
Oh, right. The aliens.
Well, we'll keep
on the lookout for them.
You can't do this!
- [Gates Closing]
- Now what?
I don't know, but I promised Laurie
I'd protect her...
and that's exactly what I'm gonna do.
I've been put under hypnosis before.
It's never helped me remember
anything about my experiences.
This would be different.
I have a gift. Um-
I'm a little psychic.
- Come on!
- You believe in aliens...
but you don't believe
in psychic phenomena?
I was abducted by aliens.
I know they exist.
I know my gift exists.
Aren't you at least curious?
Okay, so what do we do?
Relax. Close your eyes
and clearyour mind.
Give me your hand.
- This won't hurt.
- I just wanna warn you...
the last time I was put through this...
I was a very difficult subject.
I just don't want you to be
too disappointed when--
- Isabel!
- [ Groans]
- [Electricity Crack/mg]
- I'm okay.
[ Brody]
You shouldn't have done that.
- Brody?
- La rek.
This body has not been prepared
for communication. Its heart has stopped.
It may restart once I've released him.
- What is it you want?
- We need your help.
We think that some form of parasite
was released into our Earth's ecosystem...
when our ship crashed 5O years ago.
- We think they're dangerous.
- When you say “parasite,“
do you mean the gandarium from your ship
have escaped into the ecosystem?
I don't know.
It looks like blue crystals.
Earth is in serious trouble.
You must leave now.
What are you talking about?
Earth has become infected.
You're no longer safe there.
Get off the planet now.
Oh, God.
No, Max!
[Gasping]
What happened?
You fainted.
I'm so sorry. I had no idea.
- I'm so sorry.
- You sure you're all right?
I think so.